[Docs] Document Encrypted Saved Objects functionality. (#80183)
elastic/kibana: docs/api/saved-objects/rotate_encryption_key.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[saved-objects-api-rotate-encryption-key]]
=== Rotate encryption key API
++++
<titleabbrev>Rotate encryption key</titleabbrev>
++++

experimental[] Rotate encryption key for the saved objects with encrypted attributes.

> For the time being if you specify <<xpack-encryptedSavedObjects-keyRotation-decryptionOnlyKeys, decryption-only keys>> {kib} may try to use them all if it cannot decrypt the saved object using the primary encryption key. In most of the cases this overhead is negligible, but if you're constantly dealing with the thousands of the saved objects that are encrypted and experiencing performance issues you may want to try to rotate encryption key for those objects.

Author: :+1: The funny thing that the Webstorm built-in "spell checker" didn't like `a large number of` when I used initially, maybe it's too casual for the tech docs (I actually like `a large number` better because it's how it would be correct to write in my native language as well) :see_no_evil: 

![1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1713708/96090546-a4704000-0ec8-11eb-85f9-76051078b3e8.png)

[IMPORTANT]
============================================================================
Bulk key rotation can consume a considerable amount of resources and hence only user with a `superuser` role can trigger it.
============================================================================

[[saved-objects-api-rotate-encryption-key-request]]
==== Request

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/encrypted_saved_objects/_rotate_key`

[[saved-objects-api-rotate-encryption-key-request-query-params]]
==== Query parameters

`type`::

> (Optional, string) Limits encryption key rotation only to the saved objects with the specified type. By default, {kib} will try to rotate encryption key for all saved object types that may contain encrypted attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, string) Limits encryption key rotation only to the saved objects with the specified type. By default, {kib} tries to rotate the encryption key for all saved object types that may contain encrypted attributes.
```

`batchSize`::

> (Optional, number) Specifies a maximum number of saved objects that {kib} can process in a single batch. Bulk key rotation is an iterative process since {kib} may not be able to fetch and process all required saved objects in one go and hence splits processing into consequent batches. By default, batch size is 10000 which is also a maximum allowed value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, number) Specifies a maximum number of saved objects that {kib} can process in a single batch. Bulk key rotation is an iterative process since {kib} may not be able to fetch and process all required saved objects in one go and splits processing into consequent batches. By default, the batch size is 10000, which is also a maximum allowed value.
```

[[saved-objects-api-rotate-encryption-key-response-body]]
==== Response body

`total`::

> (number) Indicates the total number of _all_ saved objects with the encrypted attributes, irrespective to the key {kib} used for encryption.

Author: Ugh, it seems I forgot to update this one, will do!

`failed`::
(number) Indicates the number of the saved objects that were still encrypted with one of the old encryption keys that {kib} failed to re-encrypt with the primary key.

[[saved-objects-api-rotate-encryption-key-response-codes]]
==== Response code

`200`::
Indicates a successful call.

`400`::
Indicates that either query parameters are wrong or <<xpack-encryptedSavedObjects-keyRotation-decryptionOnlyKeys, decryption-only keys>> aren't configured.

`429`::
Indicates that key rotation is already in progress.

[[saved-objects-api-rotate-encryption-key-example]]
==== Examples

[[saved-objects-api-rotate-encryption-key-example-1]]
===== Encryption key rotation with default parameters

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST /api/encrypted_saved_objects/_rotate_key
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the following:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "total": 1000,
  "successful": 300,
  "failed": 0
}
--------------------------------------------------

> The result indicates that the encryption key was successfully rotated for 300 out of 1000 saved objects with encrypted attributes, and 700 of the saved objects either didn't require key rotation or were encrypted with unknown encryption key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result indicates that the encryption key was successfully rotated for 300 out of 1000 saved objects with encrypted attributes, and 700 of the saved objects either didn't require key rotation, or were encrypted with an unknown encryption key.
```

[[saved-objects-api-rotate-encryption-key-example-2]]
===== Encryption key rotation for the specific type with reduce batch size

[IMPORTANT]
============================================================================
We optimized default parameters for speed and don't expect you to change any of those without a strong need. However, if you're experiencing any issues with this API you may want to decrease a batch size or rotate encryption key for the specific types only. In this case you may need to run key rotation multiple times in a row.
============================================================================

> In this example we perform key rotation for all saved objects with the `alert` type in batches of 5000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, key rotation is performed for all saved objects with the `alert` type in batches of 5000.
```

Author: Thanks! Was trying to fight passive voice with `we` and `{kib}` were possible :)
